---
layout: post
title: "We are not alone"
date: 2018-06-24 15:16:24 +0530
tags: writeups
---

This is my first blogpost and I'll like to begin my blogs with a piece that I had written for a competition in my freshman year. The post is slightly philosophical in nature but I had really loved writing this article. And given I had won a prize for this makes it more special :P
As the title suggests, the topic is "We are not alone".

From a cell to being inside a wooden cell is what defines life - the time that squeezes in between. These two occasions that buckle the time period have as an integral element, individuality. Call it singularity or perhaps uniqueness, with traces of eerie of solitude. The notion is often cited as man being born alone and the lone resident six feet beneath the ground. The fact of being alone is a more superficial and simple way of explaining the above idea. 

These aforementioned words saturating the notion of singularity are equivalent but not necessarily equal. The realm of physical and materialistic domain further checks their aptness. The word “alone” is way too weak to bear the weight of what these words actually mean or convey.  The literal simplification is only the extract of its surface and not its quintessence. The juxtaposition of these words not only extends their implication by several fathom but also creates a contrast which fills the surrounding air with the need to justify themselves. Putting it simply, such an arrangement suggests the possibility of a constant companion marring that attribute of loneliness and who has been emancipated from the fetters of physical realm.

A companion neither is always a kin, nor is always of flesh and blood. Further, in the context beyond physical attributes, the notion of a companion gets more obscure and non-intuitive. Its resistance to degradation by time worsens the plot. The notion is indeed deeper than what it appears to be. A more methodical and constructive approach is essential to comprehend the idea. It has to begin from the scratch.

The reality of physical singularity in the warm womb and in the cold coffin is undeniable. So is the absence of materialism. This defends and explains the inconspicuousness of the companion to the naked eye. The permanency and consistency of this unknown companion lacks the concrete nature on which we are trying to weigh it and attempting to establish its existence.  It has to be more abstract. Perhaps it is beyond our visual realm and hence the need for an introspective approach. Moreover, its permanency and consistency ensure that it is just the same the same for you, for me or for anyone else and has remained unaltered for eras. It has to be what all of us possess. It has to be human. It has to be our legacy. It is indeed our legacy.

We are the carriers of the above legacy of the human race endowed upon us by nature seeped into us through our ancestors. This legacy is not a moral or a fundamental right or an asset; it is a definition, a characterization. This is the thread that irks the complete establishment of uniqueness. This is what draws the fine line to truly distinguish us as humans and and the same time fits perfectly to complete the jigsaw puzzle of Nature. This is perhaps to where the queue of epithets of aforementioned complimentary occasions leads to. The legacy is neither the reflection of our souls nor it is us. It is there, abstractly clinging onto the human race making us truly that we are. It is the one which has bequeathed upon us this inquisition to explore and to quantify the legacy or perhaps is the manifestation of the folly of human nature.

This legacy is “the paradox of perception”, the mystic truth, the certainties that encapsulate the temperamental bubble and perhaps the manner in which these manifest in the timeline of life. Birth and death are complimentary certainties that accompany our lives. None of them has individual existence, for both are instances in domain of time and the curve joining them is the story of our lives. The story where uncertainties are sure to come, change is permanent, unexpectedness thwarts anticipation and the truth, the reality is occult. 

The fact is never what meets the eye since the paradox of perception always decouples us from the reality. And we are gullible beings, an easy prey to perception; for the trap is well set rightly adjusted to our stereotyped mindsets.

The solution lies very much in the problem itself. The solution is the realization. It is about tilting one’s perspective. Perception is a function of one’s perspective. The moment one begins to think differently one begins to perceive things differently. And this change can dissolve the decoupling layer. But the paradox would yet remain clung to the human race. The person realizes that everything is actually perception, is illusion and that is the ultimate truth. But that is not where the perplexity ends.  . Herein it embarks upon an exponential augmentation, as to whether this is the ultimate reality or we still stand there shrouded by nebulae of perception. 

The legacy is thus mystically shrouded with no certainty of being finite. It prevents our acquaintance with the absolute, for the absolute is asymptotically separated from the legacy. No matter how far we go, we seem to stay there. The legacy keeps us bound, bamboozled. We seem to have been trapped by the legacy, clueless, with no further lead. If we are so really and truly defined by the legacy, it has to be the lead; the lead that would untangle us. The answer to the paradox of perception is the paradox itself, which seems to take the complexity of the paradox to a completely new level. 

Perception is a game of the human nature by the human mind. It is the brainchild of pretence nurtured by presumption and perspective. Never are we ourselves, never are we the same. We pretend ourselves what we want to be or how others want us to be perceived. This weight of falsehood and pretence is the true legacy of mankind which we have to bear as our constant companion with no choice, for the simple reason that it has assumed permanency having got imbibed in our souls. We are truly never ourselves. We are truly never alone.
